# 10/18/2022 - Nonverbal Communication

- Nonverbal Types
- Nonverbal Characteristics/Principles
- Nonverbal Functions
- Verbal vs. Nonverbal

## Means of Communication

Verbal makes up 7% of communication and nonverbal makes up 93% of communication

            | Vocal         | Non vocal
Verbal      | Spoken Word   | Written Word
Non Verbal  | 

Vocalics - 38%
Verbal - 7%
Body language - 55%

## Nonverbal Types

### Vocal Nonverbal

#### Vocal

**Vocalics** - Voice  
**Paralanguage** - Pitch, rate, tone, voice, filters, sighs, etc. Communication that is vocal but not actual words

**Tone** - quality of the voice
**Filler** - Vocalized pause

#### Non Vocal

Appearance, Physical Attractiveness, Clothing/Artifacts

Kinesics (Body position/movement/action)

Posture

Gestures

Illustrators occur during speech, like hand movements and waves

**Emblems** - Has verbal translation

The meaning of gestures

**Oculesics** - Face and Eyes

**Haptics** - Touch

**Proxemics** - Study of space (proximity)

**Territoriality** - Stationary space

**Spatial zones** - Intimate 0'-1.5', Casual 1.5'-4', Social 4'-12', Public 12'+

**Expectancy Violating Theory** - Enhances our understanding of how expectations influence conversational distance. The theory uncovers what takes place in the minds of communications and how communicators monitor nonverbal behavior during their conversations. It asserts that when communicative norms are violated, the violation may be perceived either favorably or unfavorably, depending on the perception that the receiver has of violator. Violating another's expectations may be a strategy used over that of conforming to another's expectations

**Chromenics** - time
**Olfactics** - smell

Physical Environment

##### Nonverbal Characteristics

- It exists
- Nonverbal skills are a necessity
- All behavior has communicative value
- Is culturally bound
- Is primarily relational
- Nonverbal communication is ambiguous

#### Nonverbal Functions

Nonverbal behaviors interact with verbal communications

- Repeating
- Substituting
- Complementing
- Accenting/Highlighting
- Contradicting
- Regulating
- Deceiving

## Verbal vs. Nonverbal

- Single vs. Multiple Channels
- Discrete vs. Continuous
- Clear vs. Ambiguous
- Deliberate vs. Unconscious
- Verbal vs. nonverbal Impact
